Hello this is Kirill from forexboat dot com.
And welcome to the editorial on testing and optimization in literature for the Preuss tutorial we talked
about the forward test and today we will be discussing the concept of optimization.
Before we dive in for those of you who are watching this course Udemy I'd like to ask you a favor.
I know we're not finished yet but if you've already gotten a lot of value out of the scores which my
leaving a review even just clicking the number of stars you feel the course does so far would be helpful
.
I'm asking you now since a lot of students originally intend to leave reviews at the end of the course
but never do because they forget or never finish the course for whatever reasons.
If you're not sure right now you can always change the review or just leave one layer it's totally up
to you.
OK now on with the show.
So what is optimization.
According to the Oxford dictionary to optimize means to make the best or most effective use of what
does that mean for us when we're using algorithmic trading systems on the forex market.
Well as you can recall from Tauriel than before every 4 x robot comes with a set of parameters that
you are able to change in order to adjust the behavior of the forex robot on the for X market and by
adjusting these parameters you can get the force over to produce unprofitably results.
Or you can get it to produce profitable results.
So for us optimization will mean finding the optimal set of parameters that will yield the highest possible
result and that will give us the best return.
So let's look at an example.
As you can recall this is a time timeline that we looked at in the previous tutorial.
Let's for a second forget about the forward test.
So this is how we conduct back tests on the 4 X market and say for instance that we have come up with
five different sets of parameters for a forex robot and we want to check which of those five parameters
is the best for us to use and trading.
So what we would do is we would write all these five out here and we would run five separate back tests
.
And then we would choose out of the results of say for example that the results are as follows.
Obviously right away we can see that these two are unprofitable and we would discard set number three
and said not before and out of the remaining sets we would choose the most profitable ones.
This one of course this is a very basic approach and in reality we would look at other things like the
ratios that are available in a strategy test report for example would look at the profit factor and
the expected payoff and also we would want to run some forward tests to see that these results would
actually perform these sets would actually perform in a similar fashion on this data that we still have
here available for a forward test.
But in its essence this is the approach to about to optimization.
You just come up with a set of parameters.
You run the BAC tests for those parameters and you look at the results that those parameters yield and
then you choose the best one of course this process can be quite lengthy because sometimes 4 X systems
have multiple parameters and when you look at all the different possible combinations of parameters
it can grow exponentially and can be in the tens of thousands of different factors and there's virtually
no way for a person to run all those back Tests manually in a short period of time.
So this is where metatrader 4 comes in to help us out.
Metro for four has inbuilt functionality for us to perform optimizations on the fly.
So how it is this done let's have a look at a standard expert adviser inputs card.
And here you can see that we're looking at the simple system inputs and this system is a proprietary
system which we will be discussing in more detail in the next section.
However right away from here we can see that there are two parameters take profit and sapless which
probably are responsible for the targets for this trading strategy.
And currently they're set at 40 each.
What we can do and share for is we can tick the box on the left here say for example the stop loss and
that way we will tell a trader for that we want to optimize this particular variable.
What it will do is it therefore will keep these other variables constant as as they're set but it will
ignore disvalue for Stop-Loss instead of this value it will actually run multiple back tests based on
these values here.
So what in reality will happen is a back test will be run for this value for the starting value of 20
and then that back test will be run for with an increment of this step value.
Also 20 until it traded for reaches a stock value so a back test will be around for Stop-Loss equals
20 40 60 80 and a hundred.
So in total there will be 5 back tests that will be run.
Also you can optimize take profit if you like.
And similarly in this case another five tests will be run.
But what if you want to optimize the combination of take profit or stop loss while you can do that Ameritrade
for you just take both boxes.
And in this case a total of five times five equals 25 back to us will be around.
And as you can see that way you can combine any number of different parameters to be run in one or one
big optimization.
So that's some how we can do optimization and therian.
Let's have a quick look at Ameritrade for and see how that all plays out in there as you can see here
.
I've got the moving average expert advisor open.
We're going to go into its properties.
First thing we're going to do is we are gonna to make sure that the genetic algorithm is switched off
the genetic algorithm is something we'll be discussing in the last section of this course when we're
talking about a more in-depth optimizations and but for now we'll just leave it off because we don't
need it.
And here we will take the moving period and moving shift parameters and the save for the moving period
will set it at 10.
Start at step of 10 and we'll go all the way up to 100.
So that's the period of the moving average and the shift will go from zero for step 1 all the way up
to 10.
And that's the shift of the working hours.
So it will do now click OK then I'll make sure that this optimization box box is checked and then will
kickstart.
So because we're using every take military force collecting data here and there it goes.
Optimization is running as you can see two new tabs have appeared optimization results in optimization
Grof.
If we click into the optimization graph you'll see 110 different results because we had 110 BAC tests
that were conducted and in optimization results we have a list of results sorted by profit.
Now I would like to mention that if you see less results here than you have to or here you have to right
click and you have to make sure that this check box is off.
Skip use useless results because if it's on then Medicare for won't be showing you results that did
not make a profit so I'll just expand this quickly so we can see more.
So their results here that were negative.
And if that check box is on then you won't see them.
So if it it were it is on by default.
So you have to switch it all off and then rerun the test again.
And now we see all of these results.
And as you can see the most profitable results is up here we can see the Profit Factor expected payoff
and everything.
And these are the parameters that we're here on the right.
So as you can see this report is very handy and we'll learn how to use it in more detail further down
in the scores.
But for now what we'll do is we'll just right click on the top result will click Set Input Parameters
and what it does is it takes off optimization and iterative populates these parameters for us into our
expert advisor.
Now we can just quickly run it and see how the robot performs with these parameters.
So now we're running this back test.
And now if we go to results or sort of go to Graaff as you can see this is a prophylactic.
Obviously it's not as good because this is a pre-packaged standard expert advisor that comes with metor
trader for but as you can see many for Help us optimize the parameters and find the best ones for us
.
So that's all for today's tutorial.
If you are watching and you do me please don't forget to rate the scores and perhaps leave me a review
.
I hope you found this information useful.
And I look forward to seeing you next time.
Until then Happy training